- What is the purpose of blockchain?

The purpose of a blockchain is to have a network of computers agree upon a common state of data.
Plain and simple. Any person or organization should be able to participate in this process.
No person or organization should be able to control this process.


In, 2008, such a system was imagined. A person or persons, under the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto released a whitepaper for Bitcoin.
In this paper they described a system that would create a peer-to-peer network for exchanging value.
This system would combine years of cryptographic research and game theoretical financial incentives to create a secure, scalable network.
The paper describes a chain of blocks tied together cryptographically.
This would later be coined the blockchain.


To tie it altogether, blockchain was invented to solve for trust. To create a system that is completely neutral and resistant to any censorship or bribe.


// Want to learn more : https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vS8uFYWDOWjitlYdZYejLNv7q2DWVzgA98J3pUdpBXPPpHB9aS7vriM-FISSUHu4IROjX-fIXPCD0I7/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000&slide=id.g1496cf631af_0_218



- Smart Contract Blockchains

Smart Contract blockchains provide developers with a way to decentralize where the code runs.
In this way, code can truly become a public resource. This means code can run without any direct ownership,
making it censorship resistant and transparently verifiable.

One important point to drill home is that the decentralization isn't about the code itself,
but how the code is executed.

Smart contract is code that will always run the way it is programmed.


- Cryptographic Hash Functions

A hash function is a function which takes an input of any size and turns it into a fixed size output.

The specific types of hash functions we are going to focus on are cryptographic hash functions.
These hash functions need five specific properties. They must be:

 Deterministic - One specific input always maps to the same specific output
 Pseudorandom - It is not possible to guess the output based on the output of similar inputs
 One-way - If someone gives you a new output, you could not determine an input without guessing
 Fast to Compute - It must be a quick calculation for a computer
 Collision-resistant - The chance of a collision should be infinitesimally small

-----> https://emn178.github.io/online-tools/  <---> challenge it

With a secure cryptographic hash function you can create a unique, fixed-size representation of an input regardless of its size.
For blockchains this feature is critically important for saving space. In many cases blockchains and smart contracts will not need to store an input,
they can just store the hash output.

Cryptographic Hash Functions will also be super important for the first successful blockchain consensus mechanism we'll talk about: proof of work.


https://cryptobook.nakov.com/ -> for learning resources
